
AS (class-name val &key &allow-other-keys) => new-val
  generic function

  The sequences subsystem provides the following AS methods for
  conversions:

  AS 'cl:vector fset:seq => cl:vector
  AS 'fset:seq cl:vector => fset:seq
  AS 'cl:list fset:seq => cl:list
  AS 'fset:seq cl:list => fset:seq
  AS 'cl:string fset:seq => cl:string
  AS 'fset:seq cl:string => fset:seq
  AS 'fset:seq fset:seq => fset:seq


ADD-FIRST (x s) => new-s
  generic function

  ADD-FIRST returns a new sequence whose length is one greater than
  that of the input sequence, and whose first element is X.

ADD-LAST (s x) => new-s
  generic function

  ADD-LAST returns a new sequence whose length is one greater than
  that of the input sequence, and whose last element is X.

CHOOSE-ANY (s) => val
  generic function

  CHOOSE-ANY returns a randomly-chosen element of S.

CONCAT (s1 s2) => new-s
  generic function

  CONCAT returns a new sequence of the same class as (or a superclass
  of) S1, whose elements are the elements of S1 followed by the
  elements of S2.


CONTAINS? (s1 x &key (test 'eql)) => boolean
  generic function

  CONTAINS? returns a true value if the sequence S1 contains a value
  that is equivalent to X in the sense of TEST.

  The TEST keyword argument supplies a comparison function. The
  comparison function accepts two arguments, and should return a true
  value if its arguments are to be considered equivalent. When S1 is
  an instance of fset:seq, the TEST argument is not used.

DIFFERENCE (s0 s1 x &key (test 'eql)) => new-s
  generic function

  DIFFERENCE returns a sequence that contains only those members of
  S0 that are not in S2.

  The TEST keyword argument supplies a comparison function. The
  comparison function accepts two arguments, and should return a true
  value if its arguments are to be considered equivalent. When S0 is
  an instance of fset:seq, the TEST argument is not used.

DROP (n s) => val
  generic function

  DROP returns a new sequence of the same class as (or a superclass
  of) S, whose elements are the elements of S with the first N
  elements omitted.

DROP-WHILE (pred s) => val
  generic function

  DROP-WHILE returns a new sequence of the same class as (or a
  superclass of) S, whose elements are the elements of S, beginning
  with the first element for which PRED returns false.

  PRED is a function of one argument that returns a true or false
  value.

ELEMENT (s n) => val
  generic function

  ELEMENT returns the element of S whose (zero-based) index is N.

EMPTY? (s1) => boolean
  generic function

  EMPTY? returns a true value if the sequence S1 contains no elements,
  and a false value otherwise.

EVERY? (pred seq &rest more-seqs) => boolean
  generic function

  EVERY? returns a true value if the function PRED returns a true
  value each time it is applied to elements of seq and more-seqs, and
  a false value otherwise.

  PRED must be a function that accepts the same number of arguments as
  the number of sequences passed to EVERY?. EVERY? applies PRED to the
  first element of seq and the first element of each of more-seqs, and
  then to the second element, and so on, returning a false value if
  PRED every returns false, and a true value otherwise.

FILTER (pred s) => new-seq
  generic function

  FILTER returns a new sequence of the same class as (or a superclass
  of) S. FILTER applies PRED to each element of S, including in
  NEW-SEQ only those values for which PRED returns true.

FIND (pred s &key (from-end? nil)) => val
  generic function

  FIND applies PRED to each element in turn of S, returning the first
  one for which PRED returns true. If FROM-END? is true, then FIND
  begins the search at the end of the sequence and searches toward the
  beginning.

HEAD (s) => val
  generic function

  HEAD returns the first element of S.

IMAGE (fn s &rest more-seqs) => new-seq
  generic function

  IMAGE returns a new sequence of the same class as (or a superclass
  of) S, constructed by applying FN to each element in turn of each of
  the input sequences.

  FN must be a function that accepts the same number of arguments as
  the number of sequences passed to IMAGE. IMAGE applies FN to the
  first element of seq and the first element of each of more-seqs, and
  then to the second element, and so on, collecting the output values
  in turn in a sequence of the same class as (or a superclass of) s.

INTERLEAVE (s1 s2) => new-seq
  generic function

  INTERLEAVE returns a new sequence of the same class as (or a
  superclass of) S1, constructed by enumerating the first element of
  s1, followed by the first element of s2, follwoed by the second
  element of s1 and the second element of s2, and so on until the end
  of the shorter of the two sequences.

INTERPOSE (elem s) => new-seq
  generic function

  INTERPOSE returns a new sequence of the same class as (or a
  superclass of) S, constructed by enumerating the first element of S,
  followed by ELEM, followed by the second element of S, followed by
  ELEM, and so on until S is exhausted. The final element of NEW-SEQ
  is the final element of S.

INTERSECTION (s1 s2 &key (test 'eql)) => new-seq
  generic function

  INTERSECTION returns a sequence of the same class as (or a
  superclass of) S1, that contains only those members of S1 that are
  also in S2.

  The TEST keyword argument supplies a comparison function. The
  comparison function accepts two arguments, and should return a true
  value if its arguments are to be considered equivalent. When S1 is
  an instance of fset:seq, the TEST argument is not used.

JOIN (&rest seqs) => new-seq
  generic function

  JOIN returns a new sequence of the same class as (or a superclass
  of) the first element of SEQS, constructed by concatenating all the
  sequences in SEQS. Functions like JOIN in many libraries accept an
  element to be interposed between joined sequences. The same effect
  can be achieved with the Folio sequences library by calling
    (apply 'join (interpose elem sequences))
  where ELEM is the element to be used to join the sequences. For
  example:
    (apply 'join (interpose ", " '("apples" "bananas" "cherries")))
    => "apples, bananas, cherries"

LAST (s) => val
  generic function

  LAST returns the LAST element of S. Note that it differs from
  COMMON-LISP:LAST, which returns the last cons of a list.

LENGTH (s) => integer generic function

  LENGTH returns the count of elements in S.

MAKE (&rest elems) => new-seq
  generic function

  MAKE returns a new sequence of an arbitrary class whose elements are
  the elements of ELEMS in the same order.

MAKE-AS (class-name &rest elems) => new-seq
  generic function

  MAKE-AS returns a new sequence of the class named CLASS-NAME, whose
  elements are the elements of ELEMS in the same order.

PARTITION (n s &key step) => new-seq
  generic function

  PARTITION returns a new sequence whose elements are subsequences of
  S. Each element of NEW-SEQ has a length of N, except when the total
  count of elements in S is not a whole multiple of N; in that case,
  the last element of NEW-SEQ contains fewer than N elements. If STEP
  is supplied, then each subsequence is constructed beginning STEP
  elements after the previous one. If STEP is not supplied then it
  defaults to N.

POSITION (pred s) => integer
  generic function

  POSITION returns the index of the first element of S for which PRED
  returns true, or nil if there is no such element. PRED is a function
  of one argument that returns true or false. POSITION applies PRED to
  each element of S in turn, returning the first element for which
  PRED returns true.

RANGE (start end) => list-of-integers

  RANGE returns a monotonically-increasing sequence of integers,
  beginning with START, increasing by 1, and ending with (END - 1).

REDUCE (fn s &key (initial-value nil)) => val

  REDUCE accepts a function of two arguments and a sequence. It
  computes a result value by applying FN to INITIAL-VALUE and the
  first element of S, then applying FN to the result of that operation
  and the second value of S, then to the result of that and the third
  value of S, and so on until S is exhausted, returning the final
  value. A sum of a sequence of integers can be obtained thusly:
    (reduce '+ (range 0 10) :initial-value 0)

REPEAT (n item) => new-seq

  REPEAT returns a sequence of an arbitrary type whose elements are N
  copies of the value ITEM. The copies of ITEM may be eq to each
  other.

REVERSE (s) => new-seq

  REVERSE returns a new sequence of the same class as (or a superclass
  of) S, with the same elements as S but in reverse order.

SEQUENCE? (s) => boolean

  SEQUENCE? returns true if and only if S in an instance of a class
  that is supported by the folio Sequences protocol. Currently,
  SEQUENCE? returns true for instances of cl:list, cl:vector,
  cl:string and fset:seq.

SHUFFLE (s) => new-seq

  SHUFFLE returns a new sequence of the same class as (or a superclass
  of) S, with the same elements as S but in arbitrary order.

SLICE (s start &optional end) => new-seq

  SLICE returns a new sequence of the same class as (or a superclass
  of) S, with some of the same elements as S, in the same order. The
  elements included in NEW-SEQ start at the index START, and continue
  to index END, if it's supplied, or to the end of S if END is not
  supplied.

SOME? (pred s &rest more-seqs) => boolean

  SOME? returns the first true value returned by applying PRED in turn
  to each element of the input sequences. PRED is a function that
  returns a true or false value, and that accepts the same number of
  arguments as the count of the input sequences. In other words, if S
  and MORE-SEQS amount to three sequences, then PRED must accept 3
  arguments, and will be applied to the first element of each of the
  three input sequences, then the second element of each, and so on.

  SOME? returns the first true value returned by PRED.

SORT (pred s) => new-seq

  SORT returns a new sequence of the same class as (or a superclass
  of) S, with the same elements as S but possibly in a different
  order. The order of elements in NEW-SEQ is determined by the values
  returned by PRED when comparing elements: when PRED returns a true
  value, its first argument will appear to the left of its second, and
  when it returns a false value, the first argument will appear to the
  right.

  Example:
    (sort '< '(5 2 8 4 9 1 0)) => (0 1 2 4 5 8 9)

SPLIT (s sub &key (test 'eql)) => new-seq

  SPLIT returns a new sequence of the same class as (or a superclass
  of) S, unless S is a string, in which case it may return a list of
  strings. The elements of NEW-SEQ are subsequences of S, separated by
  SUB. For example:
    (split "apple,banana,cherry" ",") => ("apple" "banana" "cherry")

  The TEST function should accept two arguments. SPLIT compares each
  element of SUB to a successive element of S to determine whether a
  given position in S matches SUB. When a match is found, that
  position becomes the boundary of a subsequence to be returned in
  NEW-SEQ.

  Another example:
    (split "apple::banana::cherry" "::") => ("apple" "banana" "cherry")

TAIL (s) => new-seq

  TAIL returns a new sequence that is the same as S with the first
  element removed. NEW-SEQ may share structure with S.

TAILS (s) => new-seq

  TAILS returns a new sequence of the same class as (or a superclass
  of) S. The elements of NEW-SEQ are sub-sequences of S, such that the
  first element of NEW-SEQ is equal to S, the second is equal to S
  minus its first element, the third is equal to S minus its first two
  elements, and so on until the last element of NEW-SEQ, which is the
  empty sequence of the same class as S.

  If S is a string, then NEW-SEQ is a list of substrings.

TAKE (n s) => new-seq

  TAKE returns a new sequence that is the same class as (or a
  superclass of) S, and whose elements are the first N elements of S.

TAKE-WHILE (pred s &key (from-end? nil)) => new-seq

  TAKE-WHILE returns a new sequence that is the same class as (or a
  superclass of) S, and whose elements are the first several elements
  of S for which PRED returns true. TAKE-WHILE applies PRED to each
  element of S and, if PRED returns true, adds it in order to the
  result of TAKE-WHILE. If PRED returns a false value, no further
  elements of S are added and the accumulated result is returned.

  PRED is a function of one argument that returns true or false.

UNION (s1 s2 &key (test 'eql)) => new-seq
  generic function

  UNION returns a new sequence that is the same class as (or a
  superclass of) S, and that contains all the elements of S1 and all
  the elements of S2.

  The TEST keyword argument supplies a comparison function. The
  comparison function accepts two arguments, and should return a true
  value if its arguments are to be considered equivalent. When S1 is
  an instance of fset:set, the TEST argument is not used.

UNIQUE (s &key (test 'eql)) => new-seq

  UNIQUE returns a new sequence that is the same class as (or a
  superclass of) S, and whose elements are the elements of S with any
  duplicates removed. A duplicate is any value X such that (funcall X
  Y) returns true for some value Y that is also a member of S. In that
  case, either X or Y, but not both, are in NEW-SEQ.

UNZIP (s) => new-seq1, new-seq2

  UNZIP returns two values, each a sequence that is the same class as
  (or a superclass of) S. S should be a sequence of pairs; the first
  value returned by UNZIP is a sequence of the heads of those paris;
  the second value is a sequence of the tails of those pairs in the
  same order.

ZIP (s1 s2) => new-seq

  ZIP returns a sequence that is the same class as (or a superclass
  of) S, unless S1 is a string, in which case it returns a list. The
  elements of NEW-SEQ are pairs in which the head of each is a value
  from S1, and the tail of each is a corresponding value from S2. If
  S1 and S2 are of different lengths, then the length of NEW-SEQ is
  equal to the lesser length, and any elements with higher indexes are
  omitted from the output.


